# FSND-heroku_starter
Introduction to Heroku Deployment in Udacity Full Stack Web Developer Nanodegree

## Getting Started on Heroku with Python
Follows the walkthrough on [devcenter.heroku.com](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/getting-started-with-python?singlepage=true#define-a-procfile)

The tutorial assumes that you have:
- Mac OS
- A free [Heroku account](https://signup.heroku.com/signup/dc)
- Python version 3.7 installed locally
- Postgres installed locally, if running the app locally

### Set up
Install Heroku CLI
```
$ brew install heroku/brew/heroku
```
Use the heroku login command to log in to the Heroku CLI:
```
$ heroku login
```

### Deploy the app
Create an app on Heroku, which prepares Heroku to receive your source code:
```
$ heroku create
```

Now deploy your code:
```
$ git push heroku master
```

The application is now deployed. Ensure that at least one instance of the app is running:
```
$ heroku ps:scale web=1
```

Now visit the app at the URL generated by its app name. As a handy shortcut, you can open the website as follows:
```
$ heroku open
``` 

### View logs
View information about your running app using one of the logging commands:
```
$ heroku logs --tail
```

### Define a Procfile
Use a [Procfile](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/procfile), a text file in the root directory of your application, to explicitly declare what command should be executed to start your app.
The `Procfile` in the example app you deployed looks like this:
```
web: gunicorn gettingstarted.wsgi --log-file -
```
This declares a single process type, web, and the command needed to run it. The name web is important here. It declares that this process type will be attached to the HTTP routing stack of Heroku, and receive web traffic when deployed.

Procfiles can contain additional process types. For example, you might declare one for a background worker process that processes items off of a queue.

### Scale the app
Right now, your app is running on a single web dyno. Think of a dyno as a lightweight container that runs the command specified in the Procfile.

You can check how many dynos are running using the ps command:
```
$ heroku ps
```
After a half hour of inactivity (if they don’t receive any traffic) the dynos will sleep. This causes a delay of a few seconds for the first request upon waking.\
Free dynos also consume from a monthly, account-level quota of [free dyno hours](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/free-dyno-hours) - as long as the quota is not exhausted, all free apps can continue to run.

